Replace ca-certs PVC with a projected volume of CAs (#12133)
uyuni-project/uyuni: containers/server-helm/README.md

The Root CA certificate of `db-cert` and `uyuni-cert` are expected in ConfigMaps named `db-ca` and `uyuni-ca` with the certificate in the `ca.crt` key.

An optional `custom-cas` ConfigMap can be created to extend the server's trust store with custom CA certificates.
When present, it is projected into `/etc/pki/trust/anchors/` alongside `uyuni-ca` and `db-ca`.
Each key in the ConfigMap becomes a file under that directory, so name the keys after the certificate file name (typically ending in `.crt`).
If the ConfigMap is missing, the chart still deploys — only the `uyuni-ca` and `db-ca` certificates are projected.

> 

Reviewer: Again, this comment makes sense

### Custom CA certificates

On Kubernetes, the `/etc/pki/trust/anchors/` directory is a read-only projected volume that aggregates the `uyuni-ca`, `db-ca`, and `custom-cas` ConfigMaps.

> To add or remove custom CAs, update the `custom-cas` ConfigMap and restart the `uyuni` deployment so the projection is re-rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add or remove custom CAs, update the `custom-cas` ConfigMap and restart the `uyuni` deployment as some services may not pick the change automatically.
```

Each key in the ConfigMap becomes a file under that directory, so name the keys after the certificate file name (typically ending in `.crt`).
If the ConfigMap is missing, the chart still deploys — only the `uyuni-ca` and `db-ca` certificates are projected.

If you previously used the removed `ca-certs` PVC to provide additional certificates, migrate them into `trust-anchors` before upgrading.

### Custom CA certificates

On Kubernetes, the `/etc/pki/trust/anchors/` directory is a read-only projected volume that aggregates the `uyuni-ca`, `db-ca`, and `trust-anchors` ConfigMaps.
To add or remove custom CAs, update the `trust-anchors` ConfigMap. Kubernetes will update the mounted files automatically (with a short delay), but you may still need to restart the `uyuni` deployment so running services reload the trust store.
For example, to add `my-corp.crt`:

```sh
kubectl create configmap trust-anchors -n $NAMESPACE \
    --from-file=my-corp.crt=./my-corp.crt \
    --dry-run=client -o yaml > trust-anchors.yaml
kubectl apply -f trust-anchors.yaml
kubectl rollout restart deployment/uyuni -n $NAMESPACE
```

> To add or remove certificates later, regenerate the YAML file with the desired set of files and reapply.

Reviewer: May be remind that a container restart is needed after this

When present, it is projected into `/etc/pki/trust/anchors/` alongside `uyuni-ca` and `db-ca`.
Each key in the ConfigMap becomes a file under that directory, so name the keys after the certificate file name (typically ending in `.crt`).
If the ConfigMap is missing, the chart still deploys — only the `uyuni-ca` and `db-ca` certificates are projected.

If you previously used the removed `ca-certs` PVC to provide additional certificates, migrate them into `trust-anchors` before upgrading.

### Custom CA certificates

On Kubernetes, the `/etc/pki/trust/anchors/` directory is a read-only projected volume that aggregates the `uyuni-ca`, `db-ca`, and `trust-anchors` ConfigMaps.
To add or remove custom CAs, update the `trust-anchors` ConfigMap. Kubernetes will update the mounted files automatically (with a short delay), but you may still need to restart the `uyuni` deployment so running services reload the trust store.
For example, to add `my-corp.crt`:

```sh
kubectl create configmap trust-anchors -n $NAMESPACE \
    --from-file=my-corp.crt=./my-corp.crt
kubectl rollout restart deployment/uyuni -n $NAMESPACE
```

> To change the set of trusted CAs later, delete the ConfigMap and recreate it with all the certificates you want trusted:

Reviewer: There are cleaner ways to change a resource in the Kubernetes world:
* Working with resource files and `kubectl apply` is the recommended way.
* `kubectl patch configmap trust-anchors -n $NAMESPACE -p "{\"data\": {\"partner.crt\": \"$(cat partner.crt | sed 's/$/\\n/g' | tr -d '\n')\"}}"`
